
git is a system to contol changes done in the project(local system)

github- is the place to save all the changes done in the project remotely(cloud), It is the best VCS for the open source project adopted by Microsoft.
gitlabs and bitbucket also another tool.


3 stages of git 

1. working directory
2.stage
3.local repository

working directory - this is the structure where 

stage- this is the middle layer between local stored and remote.

local repository- place which stores all the versions and history of changes made. 


Commands:

git init - this commands tells the git to track the changes of the current directory

basic linux commands

cd - change directory - cd myDir
mkdir - create directory - mkdir myDir
ls -list of all files in current dir 
ls -la -> list of all hidden files which will have .git file which has all the information about the changes.
 cd.. -> change directory 1 step back to current directory
open . -> open current directory

git status - provide the information of changes done in the files

git reset - which untrack the changes.

git clone url - the local repository can be included in the desktop all its files will be accessed in the pc. it will be by default tracked. but any new 
folder created has to be given git commands to track the changes.

Stage - Review, remove change and adjust before moving to local repo.

git add - this will save the changes tracked in the stage level.
 git add --all(shorthand git add --A) it will save the tracked all the changes in all files and folders inside the current folder
 git add (name of specific files)
git add* - This will save tracked all the changes except the deleted files if any.
git add. - This will save only the tracked changes of the current 1st step folder.
ex: u are in the folder git-journet
git-jounrney has following items
one.txt
two.txt
myFolder>three.txt
so here git add. - this will only save the changes of one.txt and two.txt but not the files in myFolder.

committ- changing everything permanently to local repo

git commit -m "I have made some changes"

1st time it asks for authentication:

git config --global user.email ""
git config --global user.name ""

global-> it will be saved for the given machine , so no need to type again and again.
--local-> for single repositary.

so when you check the status now it says no changes done.


u can rollback the recently made commit

git reset Head~
 git status- now all the files will be in working directory ready for the stage.

git rm textfile - this will remove the file from the directory

but if you done some changes without commiting u cannot delete directly from the directory with the above command

git rm -f textfile - this will remove the uncommited files.

git rm --cached textfile - this will only remove the file from staged without hard deleting and if the file is not staged then u cannot use this cammand , so make 
sure to add to staging before using this command. This will make sure to ignore from commiting.

if you want to get back the file from the above command used:
git reset --hard

git rm -r folder - this will remove all the files in the subfolders

git log - view all the commits , this generates id where we can go back to that version.

TO GET THE SHORT FORM VERSION SUMMARY
git log --online


branching - to work independtly without effecting the main.

git branch

git branch development

To get into the brnach
git checkout development
git status
it will be clean of main
 do all the modifications works here and it wont be affected to the main , whatever the changes done in main is not affected in development.

To combine the changes done in main to development
git merge main -m "changes done" now all the changes done in main will be merged in development

To merge from development to main use the same cammand but makesure u checkout to main and change main from above statement to development.

git merge development -m "changes done" 

Merge Conflicts.
this happens while merging when both main and development branches the changes done in same file.

to resolve this we have to do the decission as which one to keep. 

To goback to the different commut versions , u can use git log --online (u can see the versions of all commits)
git checkout (versionNumber)

Comparing diff commits

git diff vers1 vers2

to get back from log to cammand prompt press q


Push-> sending local changes to the remote

fetch->bringing remote  changes into local machine ,but not merging it.

pull->fetching plus merging so working directory immediately reflects the changes.

git remote origin 'url'

git branch main

git push -u origin main - this will push all the files in main to remote repo of origin branch.

u can add different branches by checkout those pranch and push command.






















